---
layout: post_archive
title: Automatically Play  a CD with Zinf in Windows
created: 1093179375
tags:
- programming
lang: nl
---
Read some information on how to add auotplay on in zinf for windows. [Zinf](http://zinf.org) is a free Open Source music player for all sorts of platforms. <!--break-->Becuase My girlfriend uses a quite old computer windows media player gobbles up all the resources. But also because Windows media player is ugly, and has one of the worst UI's ever. (and then I don't even start about the fact tha Windows media player is the excuse for microsoft to enforce its own media standards)<br /><br />So all in all there are millions of reasons for choosing a light and small application that does some great media managing. <br />One thing it does not do properly, however, is play a CD on insert in Windows. This feature is called Autoplay.<br /><br />To use autoplay you must assign zinf with audio CDS. But then you will find another problem: Zinf will not play the CD properly. I have no idea why, neither do I know if this feature is not implemented at all or if its broken. <br />I do know that zinf will play adudio files with the command<br /><pre>c:\path\to\zinf\zinf.exe file1 file2 etc</pre><br />So all we need to do, is feed zinf the files on the cd as filenames in nice list.<br />I made a small batch file for that and called it zinfAudioCD.batthe file looks like this:<br /><pre>@ECHO OFFSET STRING=FOR %%X IN (%1*.cda) DO SET STRING=!STRING! %%Xc:\progra~1\zinf\zinf.exe %STRING%</pre><br />As you can see I prepare a small list with all cda files on a cd and present them to the zinf program.<br />One problem that occurs here is that not all windows systems (can these guys at Micro$oft actually do anything properly?) support the so called "delayed environment variable". Look [on this dos resourse website](http://ss64.com/nt/cmd.html) for more information.<br /><br />So let's assume you have the batch file working. <br /><br />You now need to assign this batch file with the AutoPlay function in windows. I have only (an English) windows XP at hand, so the example might only work for XP.<br /><br />1) Open "my Computer"<br />2) Open menu "Tools" then "Folder Options"<br />3) Select tab "File Types"<br />4) selection "audio CD"<br />5) Press button "[ advanced ]"<br />6) Press button "[ New ]"<br />7) Type at Action: Play in Zinf<br />8) Type at Appl...: the name and location of the batch and "%L" <br />I have: C:\Progra~1\Zinf\zinfAudioCD.bat "%L"<br />9) press OK.<br />10) Choose "[ set Default ]" for "play in Zinf"<br />11) Press apply and close <br />And try inserting a music cd.<br /><br />Please report me any questions, and or ideas below!
