---
layout: post_archive
title: ! 'Small but Useful modules: are they worth the pain?'
created: 1275551670
tags:

lang: en
---
A [blogpost on Merge](http://blog.merge.nl/2010/06/03/10-small-but-useful-drupal-modules-part-2/) brought a question back that has haunted me for a while now. **What about all these small modules?**First part of that question is: **How to deal with the many small modules, day-to-day?**. Quite often, I see sites that drag more then 50 modules along. Most often these are really very simple sites.

That introduces several problems in itself: humongous effort on upgrade management and maintainance, lot of time spent on selection, gigantic complexity -to a level that debugging and troubleshooting becomes impossible- and last: performance. The latter is -imho- one of the least of problems. With 50+ modules, how small they may be, you can be sure of a security release every week, possibly more then one. With proper testing and management, that will mean a couple of hours technical maintainance every week. That is unacceptable for (out of thin air) over threequarters of the Drupalsites. Every time you see a module that does what you want, you should consider the impact of that module on the project as a whole. Not just how many minutes it saves while developing; but also how many hours upgrade pain it may cause.

Second part in this question is: **UNIX has this philosophy with gazillion, tiny, focused and optimised libraries and apps, why is it not a problem there?**. The answer is probably: managment - and upgrade tools. Drupal has no APT, Gems, VersionTracker or Fink. It has drush that can resolve the minimum of requirements, but hardly more. It has makefiles that provide a good starter for- but are far from- a real package managment tool. The other part of this answer is that UNIX libraries offer no user interface, and that the majority of the tools offer only really low-level user interfaces, most often in the form of configuration options. A small subset offers user interfaces in the form of commandline options. And an even smaller subset offers a real graphical user interface, with options to click, buttons to press and objects to drag. To illustrate: From the 29 packages that help deal with printing (on paper) on my ubuntu machine, only two have a GUI: one to configure and manage printers, the other to print stuff and view the printqueue. Or at least: that is my knowledge, if there are more user interfaces, I do not know of them, nor should I. In Drupal, most modules offer some interaction, add stuff to configuration-pages, offer settings, cases, and so on. In Drupal they not only add technical complexity (dependencies of -, reliance on-, tight coupling with- other modules) they also offer complexity for the user. How often do you not read things like "create a content type, then add a pathauto alias for these nodes, then select the hierarchy from the simple-hierarchy-based-on-aliases module s config interfaces"? I have never read anything like this on ubuntu in order to print an invoice.[1] Small modules are hardly ever librries, they are applications. On UNIX stuff is managable, because probably less then 5% of the apps offer an interface to the user, the rest offers interfaces to software, not to the users.

Third part of the question is: **Are you not better off, just hardcoding some stuff**? I know that, say, analytics module offers a handy tool to inject analytics code into your pages. But be honoust: is it _that_ hard to copy-paste it into your page.tpl.php, the page template? Is it really so hard that it is worth the overhead of upgrades, management, complexity and performance? Do you really need a module to add a javascript file to the header? So, small modules are usefull. And may come in handy at times. But most often you will find that they offer more pain on the long run, then they gain you on the short run.<small>[1] Actually, I work with Linux mostly, for over 10 years now, so I have seen the days when piping stuff trough ghostscript conversion filters. via lineprinter-tools into /dev/something devices. But Ubuntu really is of a whole new level :)</small>
