---
layout: post_archive
title: ! '"Pick up where you left last X" by not committing last changes, good branches
  and pseudocode.'
created: 1271318947
tags:
- project management
lang: en
---
When programming, you often need to carry a single task on to the next day, or till "after the meeting" and such. I experimented and found a good method, to pick up where I left. Working [the GTD way](http://getontracks.org/ "Tracks: an open source, webbased Getting Things Done application"), well documented code, a good software architecutre all help keeping a project in line, up to speed and manageble. But it does not solve one thing, though: "picking up where you left". I have many clients, did many projects and have lots of strings attached. Hence I get disturbed very often. Even when you can focus entirely on one single programming task (lucky you!) five o'clock is the end of the day (or, in my case, 18:30).  Going on for another half hour or so is perfectly fine, but most often I cannot finish a single task and need to carry it on to the next day. Or till after that meeting. Getting back in the flow then, requires quite some effort. What I do, is twofolded: _work with pseudocode_ and _don't commit the last run_.

First, I outline my project in the usual diagrams, documents and such. Then, when working on a more micro-level (the methods), I first write out the inner workings in comments. Steve McConnell, in Code Complete, calls this [Pseudo Programming Process](http://www.coderookie.com/2006/tutorial/the-pseudocode-programming-process/). When finished, I will commit this. When not finished, see below. You often see some meeting, break, or end-of-day coming closer, while working in several Classes, on several routines, or in the database, documenation and code all at once. You are in a certain flow, but really need to halt, because people are waiting, kids need to be picked up at school or your girlfriend needs attention. Valid enough to stop working for now. Most people I know, finish up hastily, and commit the work. I call these _five o'clock commits_ not only are they horrible from a revisioncontrol point (a commit should always describe a complete change) but they offer an opportunity for you: to keep in the flow. Do not commit this. Leave it as it is. Even if you have your work in a commitable state, leave it! After your break, or next day, you open the code, and when you left it commitable, the first thing you must do, is commit the work.

This forces you to read through the diff, describe the changes and then commit. I found this exercise more then enough to get me right into the flow, to pick up where I left. If you left it in an uncommitable state, then somewhat the same applies. You can read through the diff, describe what was going on and pick up the work right away.

When combined with [good branching practice](http://nvie.com/git-model) this "reading through the diff" takes less then ten minutes. And, as is my experience, even helps when picking up work after a few days other work, or a long weekend or any other situation where simply the diff does not ring a bell anymore. In fact, after finishing this blogpost, I am going to pick up where I left friday (six days ago) and I am confident that the commented pseudocode, good branchnames and the diff leave me more then enough hints to be on track in less then ten minutes. 
