---
layout: post_archive
title: Why I chose to disclose a security issue and not report it to Drupal securty
  team.
created: 1296748306
tags:
- drupal
- drupal
- drupal blog
lang: en
---
Okay. So I did not play nice. In fact, I probably brought quite some sites *out there* in trouble, by disclosing a Drupal [security issue on Twitter](http://twitter.com/#!/berkes/status/32125321654312960), without mentioning it to the security Team.

I had several reasons for doing this. * I was frustrated. With this module, its code and it causing several ugly bugs in an already frustrating site. Being frustrated and having access to Twitter is never a good idea. More on this below. * It has been one of many  security issues in contribs I stumbled upon off late. Some I have reported, quite some being hard to reproduce are not worth reporting. I am by no means a security expert. Hence the frustration.* It has been one of many, many more project-only security issues I came across off late. Some in custom code, some in themes, many, many more in crappy configuration and even crappier custom-gluecode. Hence the frustration: I often get the idea that it is way to easy to write crappy, insecure or bad-performing Drupal-code. I know of other projects where it is much harder to build insecure code.* This specific issue has been around since December 2007. That was the main point for me to vent my anger and disclose the issue. It is never smart to post such issues when frustrated. And I am very sorry if I brought the Drupalk security team in trouble by this. That was not intended. When I often see the quality of contributions, I get very sad. Or frustrated. I too, often make bad code; I too learn new things about writing proper code every day. And I try to improve my code by not allowing in features, code, or other stuff that misses Good Architecture, fails to fit in the Grand Scheme and so on.** If code is bad, people should not use it! At all. Bad code should not be allowed to exist. **Bad code will exist. Bugs will creep in. Security holes will open. That is reality. But we should not allow such things to be kept for long. Any software project should have processes in place to weed out bad code, security issues and such. Drupal has such processes; one of them is the security-team.

However. This hole has existed (at time of writing) for probably over 3 years. No one has reported it, yet over 2000 sites are reportedly using this module. Here something is wrong. Had I reported it to the security team, then some patch would have been brought out. And all 2000 sites would have been patched (you patch, don't you?). At least the choice to either close down the project, fix it, or anything else, whould have been that of the security team, not mine. I understand that fully. However, this time I chose the disclosure. For two (IMO) good reasons: * A project that is actively used, **with a security hole**, by thousands of users for several years, is wrong. This is the proof that at least some trivial security holes will leak trough in the current process. We must be aware of that fact.* People should know their own responsibility. I am probably very optimistic if I say that all 2000+ reported users of this module have found that hole themselves, fixed it locally, but did not manage to report it to Drupals security team. Realistic to think that hardly any of these reported users have it fixed locally. To me, that is a good indication that many-eyeballs fail to find security holes. This too, must be known.

I should probably have taken another route to raise such awareness. But in the light of things, I find a full-disclosure a good way to raise this: ** Your Drupal (Or wordpress, Joomla! or proprietry) site with 100+ modules and custom code is probably insecure. Unless you have reviewed it and know for sure it is not. ** Be aware of that. 
